DDR基因（除染色体重塑相关基因PBRM1、ARID1、BRD7和POLE4、POLD1之外的34个基因）明确致病突变泌尿上皮癌患者PD1抗体治疗反应率为80%

Sixty patients with urothelial cancer enrolled in prospective trials of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies metinclusion criteria.Any DDR and known or likely deleterious DDR mutations were identified in 28 (47%) and 15 (25%) patients, respectively. The presence of any DDR alteration was associated with a higher response rate (67.9% v 18.8%; P , .001). A higher response rate was observed in patients whose tumors harbored known or likely deleterious DDR alterations (80%) compared with DDR alterations of unknown significance (54%) and in those whose tumors were wild-type for DDR genes (19%; P , .001).（Teo M Y et al.[J]. Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2018: JCO）

肾癌患者PD1抗体治疗临床有效的患者具有更高的PBRM1突变率

 To identify genomic alterations in ccRCC that correlate with response to anti-PD-1 monotherapy, we performed whole exome sequencing of metastatic ccRCC from 35 patients. We found that clinical benefit was associated with loss-of-function mutations in the PBRM1 gene (p=0.012), which encodes a subunit of a SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex (the PBAF subtype). We confirmed this finding in an independent validation cohort of 63 ccRCC patients treated with PD-(L)1 blockade therapy alone or in combination with anti-CTLA-4 therapies (p=0.0071). （Miao D,  et al. [J]. Science, 2018: eaan5951.）

黑素素瘤小鼠模型中证明PBAF复合物相关基因（PBRM1、ARID2和BRD7）的失活与T细胞杀伤作用相关

Many human cancers are resistant to immunotherapy for reasons that are poorly understood. We used a genome-scale CRISPR/Cas9 screen to identify mechanisms of tumor cell resistance to killing by cytotoxic T cells, the central effectors of anti-tumor immunity. Inactivation of >100 genes sensitized mouse B16F10 melanoma cells to killing by T cells, including Pbrm1, Arid2 and Brd7, which encode components of the PBAF form of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. Loss of PBAF function increased tumor cell sensitivity to interferon-γ, resulting in enhanced secretion of chemokines that recruit effector T cells. Treatment-resistant tumors became responsive to immunotherapy when Pbrm1 was inactivated. In many human cancers, expression of PBRM1 and ARID2 inversely correlated with expression of T cell cytotoxicity genes, and Pbrm1-deficient murine melanomas were more strongly infiltrated by cytotoxic T cells.（Pan D, Jiang P, et al. [J]. Science, 2018: eaao1710.）

卵巢癌动物模型中证明染色体重塑相关基因ARID1A失活提升免疫检查位点抗体释放的治疗性抗肿瘤免疫原性

ARID1A inactivation compromised MMR and increased mutagenesis. ARID1A deficiency correlated with microsatellite instability genomic signature and a predominant C> T mutation pattern and increased mutation load across multiple human cancer types. Tumors formed by an ARID1A-deficient ovarian cancer cell line in syngeneic mice displayed increased mutation load, elevated numbers of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, and PD-L1expression. Notably, treatment with anti-PD-L1 antibody reduced tumor burden and prolonged survival of mice bearing ARID1A-deficient but not ARID1A-wild-type ovarian tumors.Together, these results suggest ARID1A deficiency contributes to impaired MMR and mutator phenotype in cancer, and may cooperate with immune checkpoint blockade therapy.（Shen J,et al. Nat Med. 2018）

一例POLE胚系变异的脑胶质瘤患者对PD1抗体治疗影像学客观反应的案例报道

Case report of a patient with glioblastoma multiforme and POLE germline mutation. The patient was treated with pembrolizumab and lymphocyte infiltration was noted after resection of a spinal metastasis. An objective radiographic response was noted in the intracranial lesion. A high neoantigen load was identified.（Johanns et al., 2016, Cancer Discov）

一例POLE突变的子宫内膜癌患者对PD1治疗对PD1抗体治疗超预期反应（维持14个月）的案例报道

Case report of a patient with endometrial cancer and exceptional response to pembrolizumab (maintained at 14 months). POLE mutations V411L (exonuclease domain) and R114* were identified in the primary tumor as well as a resected lymph node metastasis. The tumor harbored a high mutational load as assessed by panel sequencing. Analysis of TCGA RNA-seq data revealed an association between POLE mutations and high immune marker expression.（Mehnert et al., 2016, J. Clin. Invest.）

34例NSCLC患者回顾性研究发现POLE4、POLD1突变与PD1抗体治疗临床获益相关

In a retrospective study of 34 non-small cell lung cancer patients, four lung adenocarcinoma patients with POLE4 or POLD1 deleterious mutation (as determined by Polyphen or SIFT), treated with pembrolizumab monotherapy, were associated with a durable clinical benefit; POLE4 or POLD1 deleterious mutation were not identified in patients who did not experience a durable clinical benefit.（RIzvi et al., 2015, Science）